# 1. Dockerfile Basics Lab

## Introduction
In this lab, you will learn the basics of creating a Dockerfile. A Dockerfile is a text document that contains all the commands to assemble an image. Using Dockerfile, you can automate the process of creating Docker images.

## Purpose
The purpose of this lab is to introduce you to the basics of creating a Dockerfile, which is essential for automating the process of building Docker images. By the end of this lab, you will have a foundational understanding of how to create and use Dockerfiles to containerize your applications.

## Objectives
- Understand the purpose and structure of a Dockerfile.
- Create a simple Dockerfile.
- Build and run a Docker image from the Dockerfile.

## Steps

### Step 1: Create a Dockerfile
Create a new file named `Dockerfile` in your project directory. This file will contain the instructions to build your Docker image.

### Step 2: Define the Base Image
The first instruction in a Dockerfile is usually the `FROM` instruction, which specifies the base image to use. For this lab, we will use the official Node.js image.

```dockerfile
FROM node:14
```

### Step 3: Set the Working Directory
Use the `WORKDIR` instruction to set the working directory inside the container.

```dockerfile
WORKDIR /app
```

### Step 4: Copy Files
Copy the application files from your local machine to the container using the `COPY` instruction.

```dockerfile
COPY . .
```

### Step 5: Install Dependencies
Run the command to install the application dependencies using the `RUN` instruction.

```dockerfile
RUN npm install
```

### Step 6: Specify the Command to Run
Use the `CMD` instruction to specify the command to run when the container starts.

```dockerfile
CMD ["node", "app.js"]
```

## Building the Docker Image
To build the Docker image from the Dockerfile, use the following command:

```sh
docker build -t my-node-app .
```

## Running the Docker Container
To run the Docker container from the image you just built, use the following command:

```sh
docker run -p 3000:3000 my-node-app
```

## Conclusion
In this lab, you learned how to create a simple Dockerfile, build a Docker image, and run a Docker container. This is the foundation for creating more complex Dockerfiles and automating your application deployment.

## Additional Resources
- [Dockerfile Reference](https://docs.docker.com/engine/reference/builder/)
- [Best Practices for Writing Dockerfiles](https://docs.docker.com/develop/develop-images/dockerfile_best-practices/)


